EET Fuels appoints Toyo-India for Industrial Carbon Capture Project

EET Fuels (a trading name of Essar Oil (UK) Ltd), has appointed Toyo Engineering India Pvt. Ltd. (Toyo-India) (100% subsidiary of Toyo Engineering Corporation, Japan) a leading engineering, procurement, and construction company, to carry out the FEED phase - an integral part of the project management process.Toyo-India will oversee design completion, project de-risking, detailed costing analysis, and other vital work. Completion of FEED will enable the Company to make the final investment decision (FID) on the ICC project. Upon completion (expected in 2028), the ICC project will capture carbon dioxide emitted from Stanlow refinery’s full-residue fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) unit - one of Europe’s largest units. Leveraging Stanlow’s unique location, the captured carbon dioxide will use a repurposed existing gas transportation network and be permanently sequestered into depleted gas fields in Liverpool Bay, as part of the HyNet industrial decarbonisation cluster in the North West of England.The ICC project is expected to capture 1 million tons of CO2 per year, removing around 45% of all Stanlow emissions. The project has applied for the right to negotiate with the UK Government for a revenue support mechanism as part of the Department of Energy Security and Net Zero’s Track One expansion program in the carbon capture, usage, and storage (CCUS) cluster sequencing process. Confirmation of the date for the final investment decision will be part of this process. 