India software facilities: Panasonic Avionics sees opportunities for more India software facilities

PUNE: Panasonic Avionics, one of the global leaders in inflight engagement and connectivity that just opened its first software design and development centre in India, sees an opportunity to have more facilities in the country, chief executive Ken Sain said.India is one of the “faster growing” markets for the company, Sain told ET. In India, where Air India and no-frills carrier IndiGo are expanding their fleet and Air India is refurbishing its old aircraft, he said the demand will come “mainly from newer customers”.He sees a massive opportunity in segments such as refurbished aircraft as well.Sain said his company’s market is “pretty well divided” among North America, Europe, Middle East and Asia. “It’s in line with the market size and passenger travel. All markets are unique; markets like the US have fewer airlines but larger aircraft count, but Europe has more airlines and therefore it’s at the scale of North America for us.”The company has responded to market opportunities in India, he said. “If you look at Airbus’ aviation industry forecast for over the two decades too, it says the same thing. The reason why we want to have our facility here (in India) is because of two reasons; the talent and the growth of the aerospace sector in India is phenomenal, therefore it makes sense for us to be in India.”The US-based company, part of Japan’s Panasonic group, inaugurated its first software design facility in Pune on Wednesday.“We see an opportunity for more than one facility in India. However, that will be on the services side,” Sain said, when asked if he sees an opportunity for another facility. “As and when the market evolves, we will review the possibility on the design segment as well.”The company functions in software design, hardware manufacturing and other services.Since 2023, IndiGo (including a historic 500-plane Airbus A320 order), Air India (with a mix of wide-body and narrow-body jets), and newcomer Akasa Air (150 Boeing 737 MAX) have collectively placed orders for more than 1,120 new aircraft. This will take India's domestic fleet size more than double, exceeding 1,600 planes in the coming years.“In India, we see growth coming from the new aircraft segment,” Sain said.According to Panasonic Avionics, it owns a third of the global inflight entertainment and connectivity market. Thales and Safran are the other main players.The company provides services for Air India’s A350 fleet. It also has a partnership with Vistara, another Tata Group airline which is getting merged with Air India.Air India, which was acquired by Tata Sons two years ago, is planning to spend $400 million to refurbish the interiors of its legacy fleet, providing an opportunity to the likes of Panasonic Avionics, say experts.Though Sain did not respond directly to a question on whether the company will take up the services for Air India’s aircraft which are being refurbished, he said: “We are also seeing a good retrofit cycle. Due to the increasing travel demand, airlines are planning on using the aircraft longer than expected, but they also want to maintain the same service across their network, so we also see a demand in this segment.”IndiGo has said that it would offer inflight entertainment. Sain did not respond when asked whether his company would look to provide services to IndiGo.