TIL Limited to be Snorkel Europe's sales and service partner in several regions of India

TIL Limited has signed a partnership agreement with Snorkel Europe Limited to become an official Sales and Service partner for Northern and Eastern India, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nepal and Bhutan.As part of this new partnership, Snorkel will provide their extensive product range along with knowledge and support while TIL will leverage its wide network of customers within India, Nepal and Bhutan to provide high-quality aerial work platforms, tele handlers and material lifts. This new range of products is likely to add Rs 200 crore to TIL’s topline by FY 2028.TIL’s defence sector offerings have been used for decades in tri-services of India’s defence establishment. The company is also renowned for its retail equipment including Reach Stackers, Rough Terrain Cranes, Truck Mounted Cranes, Pick and Carry Cranes among others. This new partnership will enable TIL to unlock a new category of products and also leverage the wide consumer base it caters to. This will widen TIL’s offerings to customers in India in a variety of sectors.Speaking about the new partnership Craig Revell, Business Development Director, Middle East and India, Snorkel Europe Limited said, “We are excited to have TIL Limited as our Sales & Service partner in India, Nepal and Bhutan. The brand’s legacy in the AWP sector, coupled with its highly experienced team make it the ideal partner for Snorkel in this region. We look forward to reaching new customers across TIL’s territory and bringing them the robust products that both Snorkel and TIL are known for.”“The products that Snorkel has to offer to Indian Customers are known globally for the same quality and dependability. We feel this partnership is a natural fit and fulfils the Indian markets demand for safe, powerful and versatile aerial work platforms,” said Alok Tripathi Director and President of TIL Limited.